README.rst, before:

|PyPI Version| |Build Status| |Coverage Status| |Python Version|

This Python package provides `Babel extractors <http://babel.pocoo.org/en/latest/messages.html>`__ and translation methods for OCDS documentation.

Examples
--------

Babel extractors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Babel extractors can be specified in configuration files. For example::

    [ocds_codelist: schema/*/codelists/*.csv]

in ``babel_ocds_codelist.cfg``, or::

    [ocds_schema: schema/*/*-schema.json]

in ``babel_ocds_schema.cfg``.

Translation methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the Sphinx build configuration file (``conf.py``), you can use :code:`translate` to translate codelist CSV files and JSON Schema files:

.. code:: python

    import os
    from glob import glob
    from pathlib import Path

    from ocds_babel.translate import translate


    def setup(app):
        basedir = Path(os.path.realpath(__file__)).parents[1]
        localedir = basedir / 'locale'
        language = app.config.overrides.get('language', 'en')

        translate([
            (glob(str(basedir / 'schema' / '*-schema.json')), basedir / 'build' / language, 'schema'),
            (glob(str(basedir / 'schema' / 'codelists')), basedir / 'build' / language, 'codelists'),
        ], localedir, language)

:code:`translate` automatically determines the translation method to used based on filenames. The arguments to :code:`translate` are:

#. A list of tuples. Each tuple has three values:

   #. Input files (a list of paths of files to translate)
   #. Output directory (the path of the directory in which to write translated files)
   #. Gettext domain (the filename without extension of the message catalog to use)

#. Locale directory (the path of the directory containing message catalog files)
#. Target language (the code of the language to translate to)
#. Optional keyword arguments to replace ``{{marker}}`` markers with values, e.g. :code:`version='1.1'`

Methods are also available for translating ``extension.json`` and for translating Markdown-to-Markdown.

.. |PyPI Version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ocds-babel.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/ocds-babel/
.. |Build Status| image:: https://secure.travis-ci.org/open-contracting/ocds-babel.png
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/open-contracting/ocds-babel
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/open-contracting/ocds-babel/badge.png?branch=master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/github/open-contracting/ocds-babel?branch=master
.. |Python Version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/ocds-babel.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/ocds-babel/

Commit message:

Refactor extraction and translation methods to allow configuration of codelist headers to translate

README.rst, after:

|PyPI Version| |Build Status| |Coverage Status| |Python Version|

This Python package provides `Babel extractors <http://babel.pocoo.org/en/latest/messages.html>`__ and translation methods for standards like the Open Contracting Data Standard (OCDS) or Beneficial Ownership Data Standard (BODS).

Examples
--------

Babel extractors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Babel extractors can be specified in configuration files.

For OCDS, you can specify::

    [ocds_codelist: schema/*/codelists/*.csv]
    headers = Title,Description,Extension
    ignore = currency.csv

in ``babel_ocds_codelist.cfg``, and::

    [ocds_schema: schema/*/*-schema.json]

in ``babel_ocds_schema.cfg``.

For BODS, you can specify::

    [ocds_codelist: schema/codelists/*.csv]
    headers = title,description,technical note

in ``babel_bods_codelist.cfg``, and::

    [ocds_schema: schema/*.json]

in ``babel_bods_schema.cfg``.

Translation methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the Sphinx build configuration file (``conf.py``), you can use :code:`translate` to translate codelist CSV files and JSON Schema files:

.. code:: python

    import os
    from glob import glob
    from pathlib import Path

    from ocds_babel.translate import translate


    def setup(app):
        basedir = Path(os.path.realpath(__file__)).parents[1]
        localedir = basedir / 'locale'
        language = app.config.overrides.get('language', 'en')
        headers = ['Title', 'Description', 'Extension']

        translate([
            (glob(str(basedir / 'schema' / '*-schema.json')), basedir / 'build' / language, 'schema'),
            (glob(str(basedir / 'schema' / 'codelists')), basedir / 'build' / language, 'codelists'),
        ], localedir, language, headers)

:code:`translate` automatically determines the translation method to used based on filenames. The arguments to :code:`translate` are:

#. A list of tuples. Each tuple has three values:

   #. Input files (a list of paths of files to translate)
   #. Output directory (the path of the directory in which to write translated files)
   #. Gettext domain (the filename without extension of the message catalog to use)

#. Locale directory (the path of the directory containing message catalog files)
#. Target language (the code of the language to translate to)
#. Optional keyword arguments to replace ``{{marker}}`` markers with values, e.g. :code:`version='1.1'`

Methods are also available for translating ``extension.json`` and for translating Markdown-to-Markdown. If the latter, you must install Sphinx 1.5.1, with either::

    pip install ocds-babel[markdown]

or::

    pip install 'Sphinx==1.5.1'

.. |PyPI Version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ocds-babel.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/ocds-babel/
.. |Build Status| image:: https://secure.travis-ci.org/open-contracting/ocds-babel.png
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/open-contracting/ocds-babel
.. |Coverage Status| image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/open-contracting/ocds-babel/badge.png?branch=master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/github/open-contracting/ocds-babel?branch=master
.. |Python Version| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/ocds-babel.svg
   :target: https://pypi.org/project/ocds-babel/
